---
layout: post
title:  "Baby stepping into Roslyn: Part One"
---

After learning more about the CIL it now feels like a good logical consequence to look into one particular component that could be employed in the step of generating the CIL. 
I am taking a look at `roslyn`. This namespace includes several tools serving different purposes around code generation and analysis in and around the managed code processing pipeline of .NET.
The prominent part on our perspective is the C# Compiler `csc`. 
So, how do you go on and start dipping into the project? Starting to read the source code feels pretty overwhelming. At least for me. Because there's not much classic code to read. No crazy algorithmic gymnastics, so to say. The beauty and elegance might lay elsewhere.
For me to understand and grasp it, it might be better to start employing `roslyn` in a sample project! Similar ideas have used it in order to write C# source generators. This might be something good, so why not start with that, too.

So, some general thoughts that I have:

A source generator lets you inject C# code into the compilation dynamically.

This is useful for things like generating code from external files or annotations, in order to shorten time to implement a feature by reducing boilerplating. The example that I have in mind all the time is the swagger codegen tools for creating httpClients.

The swagger codegen uses attributes that are put on top of controller actions in order to better generate documentation and/or the http client. 

So, for this small project, let's take this as the first goal: to implement a small http client code generator. The scope should be to be able to annotate an endpoint and have our generator generate a functioning client. 
